Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Joshua Harlan Lifton.
See LICENSE.txt for details.

Plover: Open Source Stenography Software

Stenography expertise, original concept, feature design, and testing
by Mirabai Knight. Code and technical design by Joshua Harlan
Lifton. Additional code contributions by Hesky Fisher.

Supported stenotype protocols:
 * QWERTY keyboards with n-key rollover (e.g. Microsoft SideWinder X4)
 * Gemini PR (a.k.a. Gemini Enhanced)
 * TX Bolt (a.k.a. Gemini TX)
 * Stentura 
Contact the authors if you would like Plover to support your stenotype
machine.


WARNING

Plover is not mature software. Once running, it will interpret all
keystrokes according to the stenography dictionary you provide. Be
careful what you type. When using the Sidewinder or any other normal
keyboard with Plover, your normal keyboard shortcuts may not work. Use
the mouse or stop the Plover program if you are unsure of what will
result from typing.


INSTALLATION

These installation notes are for Debian-like Linux systems. From the
directory in which this README file is located, run the following
commands:

sudo apt-get install python-xlib python-serial python-wxgtk2.8 appdirs
sudo python setup.py install


RUNNING PLOVER

After installation is complete as above, the Plover application will
be available from the command-line and as an icon in the application
list. Starting the application will bring up a small window with a red
'P' icon. At this point, Plover is inactive. To activate Plover, click
the red 'P' icon, or type on the steno machine the strokes
corresponding to the PLOVER:TOGGLE or PLOVER:RESUME commands as
defined in the dictionary. The icon will turn green to indicate that
Plover is active and ready to translate stenography keystrokes into
English text. Clicking the green icon or sending the PLOVER:SUSPEND or
PLOVER:TOGGLE commands will cause the icon to turn red, which means
Plover is again in the inactive state.
